---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "Gojo Satoru vs Ryomen Sukuna"
pubDate: 2023-09-30
description: "(SPOILER ALERT) Some of my thoughts on Gojo vs Sukuna, The Battle of the Strongest"
image:
  url: "https://docs.astro.build/assets/full-logo-light.png"
  alt: "The full Astro logo."
tags: ["anime", "personal"]
---

<h2 class="heading-2">Moshi Moshi!!!</h2>

<h2 class="heading-2">The Battle of the Strongest!</h2>

Well, the Battle of the Strongest in Jujutsu Kaisen begins at chapter no 223. After the return of Gojo in chapter 221, he had faceoff with Sukuna, Geto and Uraume (although she was sent flying after Gojo's one shot), Gojo suggested that they should fight on 24th December. After mocking Sukuna, Gojo announced confidently that he **would win** against him. At the start of chapetr 222, Sukuna consumed his 19th finger and now told Uraume about whereabouts of his last finger suggesting Gojo might have hidden it. But to fill that gap of one finger, Sukuna consumed his mummified body which was kept at Tengen's barrier. Gojo also made his preparations and got good lucks from his friends and students. He wore same clothes as **Fushiguro Toji** wore in the JJK anime when Gojo and Toji clashed.

The fight begins with Gojo launching the first attack, his famous **Hollow Technique: Purple**. The fight begin's from this point onwards. Things to remember here is that Sukuna had swapped his vessel from Itadori Yuji to Fushiguro Megumi. This happened due to a binding vow between Yuji and Sukuna. So here, Sukuna can use Megumi's cursed technique's which are the 10 Shadows technique of Zenin Clan which is said to be one of the strongest cursed technique in Jujutsu history even on par with Six Eyes + Limitless of the Gojo clan. Even Satoru said in an conversation between him and Megumi, the past of Zenin and Gojo clan and how their rivalry existed since past. In this, Satoru said previous user of Six Eyes + Limitless from Gojo clan and 10 Shadows user from Zenin clan had their issues and had fought against each other. The outcome was both were dead suggesting that 10 Shadows technique is really strong that even Six Eyes + Limitless (which is showed as broken power in JJK anime time to time) user couldn't just destroy it.

So Sukuna along with his own Cursed technique (cleave and dismantle) and years of fighting experience in one of the worst time of jujutsu world i.e. _Heina Era_ now has access to 10 Shadows Technique from Zenin clan. This played in a great advantage for Sukuna in the fight since Sukuna told that he himself couldn't find a way to overcome the limitless technique of Satoru and that was causing problem's for Sukuna. Both, Gojo Satoru and Ryomen Sukuna used their Domain Expansion about 5 times in the fight against each other until the point where both were unable to use it again. If I had to speak on the basis of their fight, both Sukuna and Gojo gave each other tough times. One manga panel even suggested that Sukuna felt nervous for first time in 1000 years. Sukuna conjured Mahoraga, which is a shikigami that adapt's to the attacks of it's opponents. He did this when Sukuna was inside of Gojo's Domain (Infinite Void) and Mahoraga instantly adapted to Gojo's Domain, which gave him a hard time but Gojo had already inflicted damage for about 10 seconds on Sukuna. Sukuna conjured another Shikigami (Fusion Beast Agito) which was very strong and powerful like Mahoraga. Seeing this, Gojo made fun of Sukuna saying _You look like a lost little alien boy_.

At this point, the fight was 3 v 1 going against Gojo but somehow Gojo managed to destroy the two shikigami's which were conjured by Sukuna by using his **Hollow Technique: Purple**. But this time, this was different. It is said to be the most powerful attack of Jujutsu Kaisen and Gojo used it as a area attack which would destroy area around it including himself. But since the cursed energy was Gojo's, it inflicted very less damage on Gojo and completely destroyed Mahoraga and the other shikigami. It also took Sukuna's left arm and his eyes of left side. The last panel of chapter 235 showed Gojo smiling and announced him as the Winner. The people watching the fight thought that this is it for Sukuna and Gojo just defeated the _King of Curses: Ryomen Sukuna_. Everyone was happy including me. But then drops the chapter 236 on 24th September 2023. The chapter started with Gojo in a place which felt like an afterlife kind of thing. The met with Geto Suguru, his best friend and he was greeted by him. He also met with his long gone comrades. There, Geto and Gojo talks with each other in which Geto asked him about how was his fight with Sukuna on which Gojo said that **He had fun**. He also mentioned that Sukuna didn't went all out against him and even if Sukuna didn't had Megumi's 10 Shadow's technique, he would still win the fight. Even thought Gojo went all out, gave his best. All the technique's he learned over years, all the details he perfected in his cursed technique weren't enough for Sukuna.

After their talk, a panel with Gojo lying on the floor is shown, here every hope, every dream, every scenario of JJK fans who thought that Gojo would destroy Sukuna were Cut down by King of Curses. After this, Sukuna explains that Mahoraga's adaption start's after it receives a single attack from it's opponent. It takes time to adapt to it's attack by changing the nature of it's cursed energy but if it receives another attack of same type, it boost's the adaptation and reduces the time to adapt. It doesn't stop there, it keeps on adapting further. Sukuna needed Mahoraga to make a **Model** of how to tear through Gojo's Infinity. Here, the Infinity that Gojo posesses is nothing but distorting space around him and his opponents infinitely and dividing them into smaller pieces such that it creates a barrier kind of stuff. So Sukuna wanted Mahoraga to adapt and nullify the Infinity. At first, Mahoraga was altering the essence of it's own cursed energy, at second adaptation, it was exactly what Sukuna anticipated but didn't had the capability to send slashes towards Gojo. After another adaptation during the fight, Mahoraga cut off Gojo's right hand using the slashes Sukuna uses. At this point, Sukuna copied it's technique. The way Mahoraga was able to cut Gojo's arm was not because it's target was Gojo, but it targeted the Space, Entire world, Existence itself. This didn't mattered that Gojo was using his Infinity as a shield since the target was whole space itself. The Infinity meant nothing as long it was within that space itself. It was kind of near impossible technique for Sukuna to achieve but it was made possible due to Mahoraga.

<h2 class="heading-2">Conclusions</h2>

Well if it wasn't possible for Sukuna to achieve this goal without Mahoraga, why did Gojo said it in his afterlife/dream to Geto that Sukuna would still win even if he didn't had 10 Shadow Technique and that Sukuna was not going all out against him. Thing's just don't add up here. Also after this fight, Kashimo, a sorcerer from old times (around 400 years) who was reincarnated for the Culling game entered the ring to fight Sukuna and gave him some damage. In the panel of chapter 237, it was said that Sukuna had a way of regenerating without using Reversed Cursed Technique but he can only do it once. After this, he was seen in his true form i.e. Four arms, two faces (sort of). The panel said **The Transformation for Reincarnation Restarted, The True form Appears**. Why did Gege had to kill Gojo offscrean. I mean almost every fan of JJK anticipated Gojo would die for the other characters to be seen as more important but not this way. I mean Gojo saying Sukuna didn't go all out is just insult to Gojo's power and hype they built from  starting of this series. I mean it was a great fight but Gojo saying something like this doesn't really make sense. At this point, nothing makes sense. Would Gojo come back to life or something like that. I mean what would happen to Jujutsu world now. Let's see and we should let Gege sensei cook.

<h2 class="heading-2">Adios amigos!!!</h2>
